-*- mode: indented-text -*-

	ASPI Interface Library - source and samples

PURPOSE

    This  library  and applications    were  coded to test   some SCSI
    functions on several devices I  own.  I wanted  to write a  device
    driver  and decided it  would  be easier to test  the  logic in an
    application as   in a driver.   I  cleaned  up the code   and hope
    someone else may get something out of it.


REQUIREMENTS

    Installed  OS2ASPI.DMD.  This driver  is   provided with OS/2  2.0
    service pack and higher.  If you still use 2.0 you can get it from
    IBM as a separate archive.  To access devices which are managed by
    other DMDs use the option /ALL (see online help).

    Installed ASPI Router for OS/2.   This great driver is from Daniel
    Dorau (woodst@cs.tu-berlin.de),  I tested Version 1.01 (June 1997)
    successfully.  It is  available as aspir101.zip  (44288 bytes) and
    contains an  own ASPI library (C++)  which  I obviously don't like
    much otherwise I would have used it. ;-)


    An  ASPI specification is  usefull   for understanding the  source
    code.  It is  available from Adaptec, many  BBS (including my own)
    and FTP Servers as aspios2.txt.

    If you're going  to do anything in SCSI  programming  you need the
    SCSI-II  (or higher) specification.   It has always been available
    from the  NCR BBS.  Now  that NCR is Symbios  Logic  this may have
    changed, just check  their BBS or  Website.  Some  BBS may have  a
    copy, ASPI Router refers to 'http://abekas.com:8080/SCSI2/'.


FUTURE VERSIONS

    If  someone can tell   me how  to do  ASPI   I/Os without  an ASPI
    Router-like driver  I will happily adjust this  library to use the
    direct access.  All my own tries totally locked the system up. :-(

    Please contact me if you added things so I can incorporate it in
    the archive.


SOURCE CODE

    There is no copyright  on the source code  (except part of scsi.h,
    see header).   There should  be  no compiler-depencies either.   I
    included a 'compiler.mkf' I use  to switch compilers easily,  just
    define COMPILER to your favourite compiler and call make.

    One word about makes: I like the DMake package from Dennis Vadura,
    it is available as dmake40o.zip or dmake38.zip on many BBS but any
    GNU Make compatible package should do.


AUTHOR

    Vitus Jensen,  can be reached via   Fidonet on 2:2474/424, OS2Net,
    TeamOS/2 Net and  via Vitus_Jensen@teaparty.fido.de (if you really
    have to).

    Other software to look for (some words from our sponsor):

    Physical Disk Routines (pdsk2.zip)

	Some  OS/2 utilities to  access hard  disks by physical sector
	numbers, source included.

    DskSleep (dsksl096.zip)

	DSKSLEEP.FLT - a filter driver   to stop your SCSI disks  when
	they  haven't been accessed for  some  time. Timeout selection
	per disk, IOCtl interface. For OS/2 2.0 and above.

    VRAID (vraid20.zip)

	VRAID - Software RAID   for  OS/2 2.0  and above.   Build Disk
	Arrays   from  IDE  and    SCSI  drives!   RAID  1, RAID    0,
	Chaining. Shareware.

    SCSIOpt (scsiopt2.zip)

	SCSIOpt.flt modifies performance related settings of your SCSI
	devices.  Source included.

    OS/2 Play (play2_10.zip)

	Play  GWBASIC-style  music  pieces from an  OS/2  application!
	Source and sample included (C).

    RCopy (rcopy01.zip)

	RCopy is a replacement for xcopy /s/e, fast, Source included.
